---
workId: '1'
title: 'Feels Like Power: Immersive VR Poems'
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 1
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 8
  publicationYear: 2026
  publicationMonth: June
  authoringPlatform: 3DVista Virtual Tour Pro; A-Frame
  hardwareDependencies:
    - 2D viewing
    - 'desktop or handheld device (phone, tablet)'
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser
  peripheralDependencies:
    - '3D viewing: VR headset'
  computerLanguages: []
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - interactive poetry
    - immersive tour
  languages:
    - English
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  contentTiming:
    - fleeting content
  textFormat:
    - moving text
    - other inaccessible text
  colorAndContrast:
    - visual noise
  touch:
    - cursor click
    - cursor drag
  movementAndGesture:
    - head tracking
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Collier Nogues
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://www.feelslikepower.com/'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/01.png
  traversalVideo: >-
    https://github.com/videlais/elo2026-exhibition-preview/releases/download/media-v1/01.mp4
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - American Studies
  - Art Practice
  - Interactive Arts
  - Poetry
---

# description

*Feels Like Power* is a collection of immersive VR poems set inside spherical photographs; thus, they fill what poetry ordinarily regards as whitespace with panoramic imagery. The poems are about the long afterlives of the Pacific war. They are set primarily in and around U.S. military bases in Japan, Korea, Guam, Singapore, and the Philippines, but also include locations in the U.S. and in cyberspace. When you read the poems in 3D, the poems, and their environments, extend panoramically around, above, and below you. By moving your head and body, you can navigate the environment and the text within it. The website enables VR within each poem for those who have VR headsets, but also features 2D versions which are accessible simply with a phone, tablet, or laptop. The project invites you to experience poems spatially in each site, and to travel between sites to discover resonances and contrasts.

In their form, the poems recall the popular 19th century panoramic installation paintings of war scenes and distant landscapes a viewer would likely never experience in person. 360˚ panoramas, then and now, promise the imperial confidence of total vision, the ability to see and therefore discover everything available to be known in a scene. But of course they are also merely spheres with finite edges, trapped in the instant the camera shutter clicks. In writing these poems, I hope to leverage immersive VR's affective power in order to learn about the limits of vision from inside an ideological bubble, about the capacity of poetry to see with depth, and about the traces of war still palpable in the mundane environments and language around us. What can we learn about war, about its overlap with domestic life, about history and humanity, from bringing these distinct places with their distinct histories into contact with each other?

# curatorialStatement

PENDING

# creatorBiography

Collier Nogues is Assistant Professor of Creative Writing at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. She writes at the intersection of digital and documentary poetics, with an emphasis on making connections across decolonization and demilitarization movements in the U.S. and in the Pacific. Her poetry collections include the hybrid print/interactive volume [*The Ground I Stand On Is Not My Ground*](http://www.thegroundistandon.com/contents) (Drunken Boat, 2015) and [*On the Other Side, Blue*](https://fourwaybooks.com/site/on-the-other-side-blue/) (Four Way, 2011). Her creative and scholarly work has been supported by fellowships from the MacDowell Colony, the Ucross Foundation, Vermont Studio Center, and the Hong Kong Research Grants Council, and her practice-based research has earned the Research Grant Council's Early Career Award. She is a lead collaborator in [*DOKYU*](https://dokyu.space/), which gathers artists, writers, and historians to explore transdisciplinary approaches to archives.
