---
workId: '5'
title: 'Static Sky: And Yet It █████'
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 5
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 25
  publicationYear: 2025
  publicationMonth: February
  authoringPlatform: Unreal Engine 5
  hardwareDependencies:
    - 'OS: Windows 10 64-bit'
    - 'PROCESSOR: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-9700K CPU @ 3.60GHz'
    - 'MEMORY: 16 GB RAM'
    - 'GRAPHICS: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080'
  softwareDependencies:
    - Windows
  peripheralDependencies:
    - Keyboard & Mouse
  computerLanguages:
    - Unreal Engine 5
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - Literary computer game
  languages:
    - English
    - Chinese (Mandarin)
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  contentTiming: []
  textFormat: []
  colorAndContrast: []
  visualImpact: []
  touch:
    - physical buttons (mouse)
    - cursor movement
    - cursor click
    - directional input
  repetitiveMotion:
    - frequent repetitive key presses
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Rhett Tsai (蔡宇潇)
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
  - entityId: '2'
    entityName: Justin Bortnick
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: false
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://store.steampowered.com/app/3228950/Static_Sky_And_Yet_It/'
media:
  coverImage: >-
    https://pub-bfa6e30265b143cd8da33627d0b310b1.r2.dev/0a88e827-1898-415b-b542-214b9c3517aa/image-b426e990-7cbb-4656-a8e8-5994bf7afc6a.jpg
  traversalVideo: >-
    https://pub-bfa6e30265b143cd8da33627d0b310b1.r2.dev/0a88e827-1898-415b-b542-214b9c3517aa/video-1ee2f05d-b666-4b06-955a-5c0a6154241d.mp4
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: true
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed:
    - Stable Diffusion
    - KELINGAI
    - Tripo AI
    - DALL·E
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Chinese Studies
  - Fiction
  - Game Design
  - Interactive Arts; Visual Studies
---

# description

*Static Sky: And Yet It █████* is an experimental video game based on the fear of and resistance to artificial intelligence. It imagines a future ruled by AI world models, where everything is generated by AI, reality is redefined, hometowns are reshaped, and symbols are reoriented.

In this future, the protagonist wears a RV (Real Virtuality) headset that claim to show "reality" within the "virtual." The seemingly real traces revealed by the RV glasses (such as unfinished noise and uncolored white objects) trigger his mental breakdown and fear of reality.

By depicting this collapse and the disintegration of meaning caused by reality, *Static Sky: And Yet It █████* presents a possible future of extreme artificial intelligence. The protagonist's mental symptoms are a hypothesis about the broader human cognition of the future.

This project was made possible by a grant from the Asian Studies Center at the University of Pittsburgh.

# creatorBiography

**Justin Bortnick** is a designer and researcher whose work centers on digital narratives, game storytelling, political games and worldbuilding. His work has been featured on outlets such as Kotaku, Game Developer, Polygon and more, and he has shown work and given talks at events such as the Electronic Literature Organization, IndieCade and the Game Developers Conference. He has written and/or designed for projects such as the smart toy &"Octobo", the video games Frog Fractions 2 and Static Sky, the film Reality Games, and regularly consults for commercial video games. Dr. Bortnick is also the president of the Interactive Fiction Technology Foundation and a co-founder of NarraScope, the annual conference on narrative games. Since 2013 he has hosted the game developer interview series, Red Pages Podcast.

**Rhett Tsai** (蔡宇潇) is an internationally active artist, born in 1995 in Ningde, Fujian, and currently based in Hangzhou, China. He teaches at the Open Media Department of the School of Intermedia Art at the China Academy of Art. Tsai expresses his critical reflections on contemporary Chinese media society through a broad range of mediums, including video games, virtual reality, computer animation, and sound. His current focus is on employing "social play" ( 社会游戏) as a creative method to explore the conditions of individuals living under multiple historical narratives and experiencing estrangement from the homeland. His work spans themes from technological societies to fictional wars, marginalized groups, and alternative futures. Recently, his works have been featured in prominent art festivals and conferences such as Sónar Festival, CURRENTS Art & Technology Festival, and the Game Developers Conference. Tsai has also received several awards and recognitions, including the "HUA Award" at the Lumen Prize (2023), "Best Video Game" at the San Francisco Frozen Film Festival (2023), and finalist nominations for "Virtual and Digital Art" at the Arte Laguna Prize (2024) and "Excellence in Visual Art" at the Independent Games Festival (2023).
