---
workId: '11'
title: Interferography
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 11
  versionNumber: '3.9'
  publicationDay: 5
  publicationYear: 2025
  publicationMonth: February
  authoringPlatform: Processing 4.3
  hardwareDependencies:
    - Macbook Pro M3 Max
    - OSX 14.4.1
    - Samsung QN800D 8K display
    - Canon EOS R50 camera with 18-45mm lens
  softwareDependencies:
    - Processing 4.3
  peripheralDependencies:
    - Samsung QN800D 8K display
    - Canon EOS R50 camera with 18-45mm lens
  computerLanguages:
    - Processing
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - Interactive art
    - Imaginary languages
  languages: []
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  contentTiming:
    - fleeting content
  textFormat:
    - rasterized text
  colorAndContrast:
    - color impacts content
    - visual noise
  visualImpact:
    - sudden visual transition(s)
  touch:
    - other
  movementAndGesture:
    - head tracking
    - facial recognition
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Simon Biggs
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://www.littlepig.org.uk/installations/interferography/index.htm'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/11.jpg
  traversalVideo: >-
    https://github.com/videlais/elo2026-exhibition-preview/releases/download/media-v1/11.mp4
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Art Practice
---

# description

*Interferography* is an interactive digital artwork exploring an imaginary visual language. The 'language' is created from microscopic imagery of virus fragments digitally rendered in 3D space; three layers of imagery for each digital colour channel of red, green and blue. The project combines real-time 8K 3D digital imaging and face-tracking, calculating the physical location and orientation of a viewer's face as it appears in the camera as they observe the work. This information is used to determine the angle of view (parallax), the application of a dolly effect to the three RGB layers of each element (diffraction), and the level of zoom in the imagery. The movement of the viewer thus causes changes in the appearance of the work, creating iridescent moire effects in each visual element, as the layered visual mattrices shift their spatial relationships, evoking how interacting data patterns (as diffracting interferograms) might be interpreted as linguistic signs with dense semiotic potential. Interferometry based imagery is routinely used to encode data (eg: interferograms embedded in credit cards, passports, and some currencies, as well as in holographic imagery). Here the proposition is that the encoding techniques employed in *Interferography*, whilst apparently machine readable in character, have the potential to evoke human-readable language (although, obviously, in *Interferography* the 'text' actually remains illegible).

*Interferography* is a development of earlier interactive artworks exploring imaginary languages; 'Autography' (2020), 'Corpography' (2023) and 'Neurography' (2024); and a series of artworks, including 'Data Double' (2022), 'Correlates' (2023) and 'Diffusion' (2025), that explored the visual diffraction of viewers as irridescent (data) 'subjects'.

Technical specification: Macbook Pro M3 Max, OSX 14.4.1, Processing 4.3, Samsung QN800D 8K display, Canon EOS R50 camera with 18-45mm lens. Note that the screen recording is rendered at 4K due to the technical limitations of current screen recording software. There is four times as much information visible in the live artwork.

# curatorialStatement

*Interferography* constructs an "imaginary visual language" from layers of colour information figured as "virus fragments" and built from face-tracking software. Through interferograms, patterns formed by the collision of multiple waves of information, the layered colours render a human-readable 3D language (*graphy*) out of the "interference" of dense linguistic signals.

As an interactive digital artwork, *Interferography* makes visible the layers of information as colour-depth, translating the viewer's presence before the camera into a shifting spectrum of light that is usually imperceptible. In doing so, the work offers a reflection on how perception itself becomes a site of semiotic meaning, inviting the reader to see interpretation as something continually in flux.

# creatorBiography

**Simon Biggs** is an Adjunct Research Professor at the University of South Australia. An active media artist, writer and curator, his creative works have been presented, often as commissions, in significant international exhibitions, festivals, public sites and other contexts. Publications include Remediating the Social (ed, 2012), Autopoiesis (with James Leach, 2004), Great Wall of China (1999), Halo (1998), Magnet (1997), Book of Shadows (1996). His website is at https://www.littlepig.org.uk/
