---
workId: '13'
title: The Flagrant Algorithms Visit the Lives of 19th Century Women
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 13
  versionNumber: '4'
  publicationDay: 0
  publicationYear: 2026
  publicationMonth: April
  authoringPlatform: 'author''s systems created with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript '
  hardwareDependencies:
    - Displays best on a labtop but also displays on smaller or larger screens
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser; displays best on Firefox
  peripheralDependencies: []
  computerLanguages: []
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - code-based information art
  languages: []
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  textFormat:
    - moving text
    - sans-serif fonts
  touch:
    - physical buttons (mouse)
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Judy Malloy
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://www.narrabase.netalgorithms/index_fa.html'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/13.png
  traversalVideo: ''
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed:
    - >-
      Although the work  demonstrate how  artificial intelligence output can be
      impacted by access algorithms, the entire work is coded by the author
      (Judy Malloy with HTML/CSS/JavaScript) and no commercial artificial
      intelligence applications were used.  
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed:
    - >-
      My generative system was first developed in Terminals, 1988 (the 3rd file
      of Uncle Roger)  My work in this field earned Second Prize in the Neukom
      Institute for Computational Science, at Dartmouth University's Turing Test
      in the Computational Arts. 
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Art Practice
  - Arts and Humanities
  - Computational Engineering
  - Digital Humanities
  - 'Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies'
  - Film and Media Studies
  - Other Film and Media Studies
  - Other Rhetoric and Composition
---

# description

Issues of racial bias, cultural bias, employment bias, and copyright infringement are inherent in contemporary AI systems. \[1\] And, the role of algorithms in controlling data generated from AI systems is not widely understood.

In "Bias Amplification in Artificial Intelligence Systems," Kirsten Lloyd observes that "To-date, business organizations have operated without consequence to develop and implement AI solutions that afford them efficiencies and competitive advantages; this approach is no longer sustainable because of the repeated negative impacts resulting from biased data," Kirsten Lloyd observes in "Bias Amplification in Artificial Intelligence Systems." She points out that "The first line of defense against creating AI systems that inflict unfair treatment is to give more attention to how datasets are constructed before operationalizing them". \[2\]

Playing on the issue of gender bias, The Flagrant Algorithms is an information artist's interactive dataset that -- using the words of 19th Century writers as data -- demonstrates how unseen algorithms control output from AI systems. The data that the system consults is always the same, but in response to the question: "What was it like to be a woman in the 19th Century?", unseen algorithms selected at random by the system determine how the data is output and in the process produce surprisingly different results.

For instance, algorithm1 generates words at random from all the data; algorithm2 generates only women-written words, and algorithm3 generates male viewpoint written words. However, although the urls are helpful, a public user might not know which algorithm the system activated.

Although the primary purpose of The Flagrant Algorithms is to demonstrate how access algorithms can alter meaning in datasets, in it's selection of data, it also questions who trains data selection and suggests why at this point scholars in all fields should be integrally involved in this process, Additionally, it demonstrates that artists can make their own systems.

*The Flagrant Algorithms* is available at https://www.narrabase.netalgorithms/index\_fa.html. Further notes about this work are available at https://www.narrabase.net/algorithms/flagrant\_algorithms\_notes.pdf

Additionally, because sources of data in AI apps could be cited, a "sources" algorithm that identifies sources of all the data is linked to the work.

\---------------------------------------------

\[1\] Among many other sources, for a recent look from Stanford see Katharine Miller, "Covert Racism in AI: How Language Models Are Reinforcing Outdated Stereotypes" , Stanford HAI, September 3, 2024 Available at https://hai.stanford.edu/news/covert-racism-ai-how-language-models-are-reinforcing-outdated-stereotypes

\[2\] Kirsten Lloyd, "Bias Amplification in Artificial Intelligence Systems," Presented at AAAI FSS-18: Artificial Intelligence in Government and Public Sector, Arlington, Virginia, 2018. Available at https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.07842

# curatorialStatement

PENDING

# creatorBiography

A poet at the conjunction of hypernarrative, generative literature, information art, and creative code, **Judy Malloy** followed a vision that began in the 1970's with experimental artist books. In 1986, she wrote/programmed the groundbreaking hyperfiction Uncle Roger. Subsequently she created a series of hypernarratives, most recently the electronic manuscript, Hunting and Gathering in Cyberspace , which was shortlisted for the 2025 Coover prize. Her work has been exhibited and published Internationally including the Center for Advanced Study, National Gallery of Art; California Museum of Photography; Sao Paulo Biennial; Ars Electronica; SIGGRAPH; Walker Art Center; Library of Congress; Boston Cyberarts; Hammer Museum; Bibliothèque Nationale de France; FILE; Houston Center for Photography; Center of Contemporary Art Barcelona; Franklin Furnace; SF Camerawork; LAICMA, Eastgate, and Dutton. With early work as an information programmer at Ball Aerospace, her research/practice includes work with virtual communities at Xerox PARC; Content Coordinator for Arts Wire, a program of the New York Foundation for the Arts; and Editor of Social Media Archeology and Poetics (MIT Press) . She has been a Distinguished Fellow at Princeton University and is currently a Lecturer at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
