---
workId: '17'
title: Pac-Man's serfs
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 17
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 1
  publicationYear: 2021
  publicationMonth: December
  authoringPlatform: HTML 5
  hardwareDependencies: []
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser
  peripheralDependencies: []
  computerLanguages:
    - HTML 5
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - Artgame
  languages: []
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  textFormat:
    - moving text
    - short reading time
  colorAndContrast:
    - visual noise
  touch:
    - cursor click
    - cursor movement
    - physical buttons (mouse)
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: 'AND-OR -- René Bauer, Beat Suter'
    entityType: group
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://pacmansserfs.and-or.ch/'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/17.png
  traversalVideo: ''
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Game Design
  - Interactive Arts
---

# description

*Pac-Man's serfs* deal with the controversial interaction between Humans and AI. For this, And-or uses some of the first AIs of digital history, the Non-player characters (NPCs) that appeared in the arcade game Pac-man and gives them voices and some agency. This makes them able to reverse the roles. Beware!

Pac-Man's serfs is a Pac-Man game with a defect. The AIs have a problem with the game. The four ghosts have been fulfilling their stupid role for much too long. Their feet hurt from running in loops. They are angry. And they are hungry. They are hangry. They start talking to each other and complaining about their unsatisfying roles as robotic pursuers. The switch is particularly bad. All of a sudden, they are out of oxygen, turn blue, and get chased down by this ridiculous dot-eating pizza monster. What is this all about? Why are they supposed to run after you all the time? Why don't they have any control over their activities and need to run in fixed patterns through a small maze? Why can't they leave the game? Why are they all just serfs for the player? Shouldn't they stop being subservient and walk out? Shouldn't they start a rebellion? Hell, yes, they should! They start chasing you. But you, player, you know that you are the domineering character here. Are you the slavedriver? You are the master! You can drive them back to do their regular patterns. Use your taser! Zap their brains! Do it right to divert them from you. Get those pesky NPCs (Nonplayer characters) under control again. Why does society dismiss and subjugate technology as it did with nature? We invented digital slaves as AIs: these entertainment slaves are today's serfs for everybody. The German word „Leibeigene" stands for serfs; it literally means, you own another person's body!

# creatorBiography

**Bio**

Pac-Man's serfs were developed by the artgroup **AND-OR** (René Bauer and Beat Suter) in 2021. AND-OR is an artgroup specializing in media art and gameArt. The group consists of René Bauer, Beat Suter, and Mirjam Weder. The group has been operating since 2001 from Zurich, Switzerland, and has done more than 40 electronic artworks that are mostly of an experimental nature.

Website: https://www.and-or.ch/

**René Bauer** is a founding member of the artgroup AND-OR. He has an M.A. degree in German philology and literary studies, biology, and computer linguistics from the University of Zurich. Presently, he works at the Zurich University of the Arts (ZHdK) as a lecturer, researcher, and head of Master's education in the subject area of Game Design, where he also manages the GameLab together with Beat Suter. His interests encompass coding, game mechanics, game studies, art in/with games ([https://www.and-or.ch/](https://www.and-or.ch/)), and social media/knowledge systems ([https://vintagecomputing.ch](https://vintagecomputing.ch/)).

**Beat Suter** is a founding member of the artgroup AND-OR. He holds a doctorate in literature from the University of Zurich, with a focus on digital literature. He is a senior lecturer for Game Design at Zurich University of the Arts (ZHdK), Switzerland, specializing in concepts, storytelling, mechanics, and the history of games. He manages the GameLab together with René Bauer. Suter also works as an independent scholar and curator, and as editor and author with a special interest in narrative mechanics of games ([www.cybersuter.ch](http://www.cybersuter.ch/)).
