---
workId: '38'
title: 'Yo soy un teléfono: Playful procedural poetry with Tracery and P5.js'
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 38
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 8
  publicationYear: 2026
  publicationMonth: June
  authoringPlatform: 'Open Processing P5.JS, Tracery, GitHub, Claude (Sonnet 3.7)'
  hardwareDependencies: []
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser
  peripheralDependencies: []
  computerLanguages:
    - JavaScript
    - JSON
    - HTML
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - playful
    - interactive generative text
  languages:
    - Spanish
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  contentTiming:
    - fleeting content
  textFormat:
    - light fonts
    - short reading time
    - small fonts
  colorAndContrast:
    - low contrast (occasional)
  touch:
    - cursor click
    - capacitive touchscreen
    - physical buttons (mouse)
  repetitiveMotion:
    - frequent repetitive key presses
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Emily K. Johnson
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://ekjphd.github.io/tracetry/'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/38.jpg
  traversalVideo: ''
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: true
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed:
    - Claude (Sonnet 3.7)
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Digital Humanities
  - Language Interpretation and Translation
  - Poetry
---

# description

Playful pedagogy enjoys a long history in second language acquisition (SLA) classrooms, with scholars looking at humor as a way to embrace the inevitable mistakes learners make. Language instructors commonly use nursery rhymes, and games like telephone and charades. When I taught middle school English Language Arts, I used poems like Lewis Carrol's "Jabberwoky" in grammar instruction and silly nonsense poems to teach grammatical structure.

This work is inspired by listening to my children (9 and 11 years old at the time) piece together Spanish words they learned (through Duolingo) into intentionally incorrect sentences to amuse one another. Notably, in the middle of dinner one evening, my 11-year-old spoke in a slow, robotic tone, "Yo. Soy. Un. Teléfono." I looked at her and translated, "You are a telephone?" and she and her brother burst into gleeful laughter.

My children's language games inspired me to create a digital version of this play using Tracery to generate poetry (Tracetry?) as a playful way to interact with Spanish vocabulary and grammar. This creative project was intended as an experiment with the ways that genAI tools can assist someone like me (with only basic computational thinking skills and experience with Tracery) in creating a more complicated project in OpenProcessing.

I began with a copy of a sketch created by Anastasia Salter for a class demonstration (https://openprocessing.org/sketch/1325975) and then worked with ChatGPT-4o and Claude 3.7 to embed my Tracery grammar into the OpenProcessing P5.js code. The sentence structures are simple (to stay within my own basic knowledge of Spanish; I also used Google Translate to check several translations and spellings). The final version includes six sentence configurations along the lines of, "#noun# #adjective# #verb# #adverb#."

Other configurations include simple sentence beginnings like "Yo soy" (I am), and all nouns and adjectives are in the masculine form to maintain a simple grammatical structure. Sentences generated are ultimately as silly yet grammatical as my 11-year-old's example, such as, "¿Dónde está el televisor guapo?" (Where is the handsome television?).

# creatorBiography

Emily K. Johnson, Ph.D. is an Associate Professor in the Department of English (Technical Communication and Digital Humanities), graduate faculty in the Technical Communication MA program, and core faculty in the Texts and Technology Ph.D. program. She is co-author of *Critical Making in the Age of AI* (with Anastasia Salter, Amherst, 2025) and *Playful Pedagogy in the Pandemic: Pivoting to Games-Based Learning* (with Anastasia Salter, Routledge 2022). Johnson has served as Principal Investigator of a project funded by the U.S. Department of Education investigating the efficacy of five of her co-designed video games (computer and virtual reality) for language learning. Her work has been published in *Communication Design Quarterly, Technical Communication Quarterly, Computers and Composition, Computers and Education,* the *Journal for Universal Computer Science,* and more.
