---
workId: '43'
title: 'Inner Differencing: Alexander von Humboldt''s thousand threads'
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 43
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 8
  publicationYear: 2026
  publicationMonth: June
  authoringPlatform: HTML
  hardwareDependencies:
    - Computer with graphics and sound
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser
  peripheralDependencies:
    - ''
  computerLanguages:
    - HTML
    - JavaScript
    - 'MAX: Jitter'
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres:
    - 'Poetic, Sonic and Visual hypermedia'
  languages: []
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility:
  touch:
    - cursor click
    - cursor movement
    - cursor drag
  textFormat:
    - moving text
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Hazel Smith
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
  - entityId: '2'
    entityName: Roger Dean
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: false
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: >-
      https://www.australysis.com/private-view2021/InnerDifferencing-FinalPiece/indexdiffs.html
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/43.png
  traversalVideo: >-
    https://github.com/videlais/elo2026-exhibition-preview/releases/download/media-v1/43.mp4
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: true
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed:
    - Stable Diffusion
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed:
    - Stable Diffusion
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords: 
  - Creative Writing
  - Music
  - Visual Studies
---

# description

The piece is about inner differences in the earth-human-earth cycle. It sequentially interconnects inner differencing within the geological formation of the earth, the animal kingdom, human culture and human minds, and shows the way they interact with each other, both to beneficial and detrimental effect. The piece consequently addresses many pressing problems such as climate change and soil erosion but through a sociological and psychological lens.

Physical pressures of mass and heat distribution in the interior of the earth cause earthquakes, submergence and emergence of islands, and the birth of continents. We probe the way these geological inner differences have produced ecological environments that preclude certain species and afford others, resulting in both human and non-human social groups and cultures. However, the ecological and social differences between these groups and cultures are also subject to conflicts and contradictions within each animate mind that can work to the benefit or detriment of both humankind and the earth itself. The piece correspondingly figures the mind and its attendant psychology with metaphors that invoke interior environments such as deserts, forests, rooms, boxes, caves and doors, sometimes sealed, sometimes open.

The piece also draws strongly on the life and ideas of 18th-19th century German geographer and polymath, Alexander von Humboldt, and his influential concept of the underlying unity in nature, related to contemporaneous Romantic thinking. Humboldt also undertook remarkable physical exploration of the diverse environments arising on earth.

The piece is non-linear and contains some interactive elements. It also allows some algorithmic directional control by the user. The screened and performed text is multi-generic, incorporating poetry, prose and documentary elements. In response, images have been made, chosen or in some cases generated with a large media model (*Stable Diffusion*, a machine learned LMM). Some images have been continuously transformed using algorithmic code in *Jitter*, and appear as video sequences. Users can move some of the images, changing their overlapping and their consequent differencing; they can also choose the variety of audio development in use. After one cycle through randomised samples of the texts, topic by topic (about 13 minutes) a user may choose to return to any particular topic to pursue it further, and may also change the way the audio is developed. Weighting of words and topics within the AI generation step seeks to provide both synaesthetic and non-diegetic links between language and image. Algorithms are sometimes used for the same purposes in the music generation, which is broadly compositional, improvisatory and algorithmic. Some algorithms are used to create variation during the progress of the piece and to vary from occasion to occasion, while some were pre-written in *MAX*, a key graphical and line programming environment for timbre and music sequence development. *MAX* was used to produce the pre-recorded sequences that are so used. Further technical details about the piece are provided on the ‘Intro’ page.

# curatorialStatement

PENDING

# creatorBiography

**Hazel Smith** (text, concept), **Roger Dean** (sound, image, concept, programming). They (together with **Will Luers**) won the Robert Coover Award of ELO, and are featured in two of the ELC volumes. They put particular emphasis on interaction between text, image and sound transformation processes. Their work involves both rigorous algorithmic control, randomised recombination, and since 2016, transformations of machine learning (AI) models. In the present case, poetic prompt engineering was also used.
