---
workId: '46'
title: 'Twine fiction: Where Scorpions Fear to Tread'
documentationLicense: ''
version:
  version: ELO2026
  versionId: 46
  versionNumber: '1.0'
  publicationDay: 8
  publicationYear: 2026
  publicationMonth: June
  authoringPlatform: ''
  hardwareDependencies: []
  softwareDependencies:
    - Web Browser
  peripheralDependencies: []
  computerLanguages: []
  digitalQualities: []
  sensoryModalities: []
  genres: []
  languages: []
  accessibility: ''
  rightsNotice: ''
accessibility: {}
entities:
  - entityId: '1'
    entityName: Carolijn Guytonbeck
    entityType: individual
    entityCountryOfOrigin: ''
    role: creator
    roleAbbreviation: crt
    primaryRole: true
    rolePseudonym: ''
externalLinks:
  - externalLinkName: Website
    externalLinkId: 1
    externalLinkUrl: 'https://bice-grace-lapin.itch.io/where-scorpions-fear-to-tread'
media:
  coverImage: /images/works/cover/46.png
  traversalVideo: /videos/mp4/46.mp4
ai:
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedContent: false
  artificialIntelligenceGeneratedCode: false
  artificialIntelligenceToolsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceModelsUsed: []
  artificialIntelligenceExternalLinks: []
keywords:
  - Arts and Humanities
  - Digital Humanities
---

# description

This digital fiction written in Twine utilises multi-media to augment the narrative. The story draws upon literature, science and philosophy to create an imaginative world and characters. Its premise is based around two characters who must face their inner demons and trust each other to achieve a goal. There is an underlying theme of political power and fight for humanity. In the story, giant scorpions have evolved to have human thought but lack souls which they are working to take from humans. A reader might interpret these scorpions as metaphors for AI.

I have used Twine as a media that can enhance a reader experience through interaction, visual elements and sound. While there are game-like elements, the focus is on the written narrative with a story arc as opposed to the reader choosing their path. However, there is choice in how the story is read. For instance, the reader can choose which of the main two characters they wish to follow; but to fully experience the story they must then follow the other. As it is relatively long, I opted to break the story into two parts with the second being *The Butterfly and the Tree*. In this second part, the two characters are now together and the reader switches POV between them. This Twine is thus an experiment using the second person 'you' POV across two characters using background colour themes to differentiate. These colour themes subtly change as the characters develop. Plus, there is a background auditor or storyteller who drops in at times. I describe the story as star-like in that the reader can choose to follow links that can give additional elements to the story such as character memories, follow bad choices to consider consequences, as well as offering links to the aforementioned literature, science and philosophy that informed the narrative. It is meant to encourage thinking.

I would like to acknowledge my friend Jimi Bellaney for providing the original soundtrack. Otherwise all the work is my own.

Thank you, Carolijn.

# curatorialStatement

*Where Scorpions Fear to Tread* is the first section of a two-part Twine work that follows the journeys of Psyche de la Rose and Anodos Sehnsucht through a dream-like interface. A shifting colour palette and the deliberate use of whitespace foreground interpretation as an active process, while the work engages the conventions of Twine fiction to explore the possibility space of choices between authored outcomes. Timed text and the gradual revealing of options slow the pace of reading, focusing attention on individual moments, and offsetting visuals mark the strangeness of unfamiliar locations.

Structured around dreams, the work returns to a neutral, "dreamless" interstitial state to reset the journey between story segments. Strange sights and shifting audio render each transition unsettling, not only for the characters, who stumble into unfamiliar places, but for the player who must navigate to and from them. In doing so, *Where Scorpions Fear to Tread* operates within the expressive possibilities of Twine fiction, using pacing, sound, and visual disorientation to make the reader inhabit the disquiet of its dreamers.

# creatorBiography

[Bice Grace Lapin](https://bicelapin.com/) is the creative entity of Carolijn Guytonbeck.

*[The Butterfly and the Tree](https://bice-grace-lapin.itch.io/the-butterfly-the-tree/)* completes the work *Where Scorpions Fear to Tread*.

In New Zealand, at the University of Otago, I have been aiding in teaching Creative Writing including Twine for the last 8 years. My next digital fiction will develop some of these concepts discussed to create a new Twine narrative for my 2026 Master of Creative Writing degree. My limited coding abilities work to my advantage as my interest lies in developing online options that cross the border of game and literature. It is my ultimate desire to create work that can be 'bundled', in that a piece of literature can be an online experience with a narrative that could be turned into a game as well as having a physical element such as a booklet or novella and art-work and working collaboratively to achieve this.

**Jimi Bellaney** ([https://jamesbellaney.bandcamp.com](https://jamesbellaney.bandcamp.com)) who wrote and produced the soundtrack, is a sound artist and producer from Aotearoa, New Zealand. His music blends hypnotic techno and experimental soundscapes. He is also a visual artist with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in painting.
